data/docs/faqs/general.mdx, before:

---
date: 2025-08-26
title: General FAQs
tags: [SigNoz Cloud, Self-Host]
id: general-faqs
---

### Q. How to setup SigNoz across different environments?

A. Tag your telemetry with the `deployment.environment` resource attribute (e.g., production/staging/development) via SDK env vars or the Collector’s Resource processor, then filter and alert by environment in SigNoz.

<details>

<summary> Toggle for detailed answer </summary>

You can ingest data from across your environments and tag your telemetry with the `deployment.environment` resource attribute (for example: `production`, `staging`, `development`). This lets you filter, compare, and alert per environment in the UI.

- SDK (all languages)

  - Set via environment variables when starting your app:
    ```bash
    OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production"
    ```

- OpenTelemetry Collector (agent or gateway)
  - Upsert the attribute with the Resource processor so all signals include it:
    ```yaml
    processors:
      resource/env:
        attributes:
          - key: deployment.environment
            value: production
            action: upsert
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          processors: [resource/env, batch]
        metrics:
          processors: [resource/env, batch]
        logs:
          processors: [resource/env, batch]
    ```
  - Refer to [OpenTelemetry Collector Configuration reference](https://signoz.io/docs/opentelemetry-collection-agents/opentelemetry-collector/configuration/#resource-processor) for more details on the Resource processor.
  - Guide on setting resource attributes for logs (applies similarly to traces/metrics): [here](https://signoz.io/docs/logs-management/guides/set-resource-attributes-for-logs).

</details>

### Q. How Do I cancel my subscription ?

A. Reach out to us on chatbox at the bottom right corner of your SigNoz Cloud interface.

### Q. I see a message that my account might be Rate limited ?

<details>

<summary> Toggle for answer </summary>

For SigNoz Cloud Trial Accounts you might get a message saying
`"You are sending data at more than 100 RPS, your ingestion may be rate limited. Please reach out to us via chat support."` To remove this rate limit, you need to upgrade your plan under the Billing Section of your SigNoz Cloud Interface and add your credit card.
{/* <!-- Hyperlink to the Billing Troubleshooting or Doc--> */}

</details>

### Q. I need a Vendor Address for the payment to be approved.

<details>

<summary> Toggle for answer </summary>

You can use this Address - **SigNoz Inc - 2261 Market Street #4496, San Francisco, CA, 94114**

</details>

### Q. What is a DataSource ?

A. DataSource is the service, db or any instance which generates telemetry data (Traces, Logs and Metrics).

### Q. How do I change data retention periods in SigNoz?

A. For self‑hosted, change retention in Settings → General (applies only to newly ingested data).
For SigNoz Cloud, contact support to request retention changes (affects pricing).

<details>

<summary> Toggle for answer </summary>

For self-hosted SigNoz:

1. Navigate to the General tab in Settings.
2. Adjust the retention period for the desired data type (logs, metrics, or traces).
3. Note that changes will only apply to newly ingested data and will not be applied retroactively.

For SigNoz Cloud:

- Retention period changes require assistance from the SigNoz support team.
- Available retention periods:
  - Logs: Up to 180 days
  - Metrics: Up to 13 months
  - Traces: Up to 180 days
- Changes to retention periods may affect pricing. Use the [pricing calculator](https://signoz.io/pricing/#estimate-your-monthly-bill) to estimate updated costs.

To request a retention period change for SigNoz Cloud:

1. Contact SigNoz support with the requested retention periods for each data type (logs, metrics, and/or traces).
2. Review and confirm any pricing changes with the support team.
3. Support will implement the changes, typically within 24 hours.

Note: Retention period changes only affect newly ingested data and will not apply retroactively to existing data.

</details>

Commit message:

docs: align faq wording with k8s infra naming (#2166)
* docs: align faq wording with k8s infra naming

* docs: add description to general faq

data/docs/faqs/general.mdx, after:

---
date: 2025-08-26
title: General FAQs
tags: [SigNoz Cloud, Self-Host]
id: general-faqs
description: Answers to common SigNoz questions covering setup, billing, and account
  management.
---

### Q. How to setup SigNoz across different environments?

A. Tag your telemetry with the `deployment.environment` resource attribute (e.g., production/staging/development) via SDK env vars or the Collector’s Resource processor, then filter and alert by environment in SigNoz. If you deploy the SigNoz k8s infra Helm chart, the chart sets `deployment.environment` for you via the required `deploymentEnvironment` value, so you do not need to add it manually—see the [Kubernetes infra install guide](https://signoz.io/docs/opentelemetry-collection-agents/k8s/k8s-infra/install-k8s-infra/).

<details>

<summary> Toggle for detailed answer </summary>

You can ingest data from across your environments and tag your telemetry with the `deployment.environment` resource attribute (for example: `production`, `staging`, `development`). This lets you filter, compare, and alert per environment in the UI.

- SDK (all languages)

  - Set via environment variables when starting your app:
    ```bash
    OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production"
    ```

- OpenTelemetry Collector (agent or gateway)
  - Upsert the attribute with the Resource processor so all signals include it:
    ```yaml
    processors:
      resource/env:
        attributes:
          - key: deployment.environment
            value: production
            action: upsert
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          processors: [resource/env, batch]
        metrics:
          processors: [resource/env, batch]
        logs:
          processors: [resource/env, batch]
    ```
  - Refer to [OpenTelemetry Collector Configuration reference](https://signoz.io/docs/opentelemetry-collection-agents/opentelemetry-collector/configuration/#resource-processor) for more details on the Resource processor.
  - Guide on setting resource attributes for logs (applies similarly to traces/metrics): [here](https://signoz.io/docs/logs-management/guides/set-resource-attributes-for-logs).

</details>

### Q. How Do I cancel my subscription ?

A. Reach out to us on chatbox at the bottom right corner of your SigNoz Cloud interface.

### Q. I see a message that my account might be Rate limited ?

<details>

<summary> Toggle for answer </summary>

For SigNoz Cloud Trial Accounts you might get a message saying
`"You are sending data at more than 100 RPS, your ingestion may be rate limited. Please reach out to us via chat support."` To remove this rate limit, you need to upgrade your plan under the Billing Section of your SigNoz Cloud Interface and add your credit card.
{/* <!-- Hyperlink to the Billing Troubleshooting or Doc--> */}

</details>

### Q. I need a Vendor Address for the payment to be approved.

<details>

<summary> Toggle for answer </summary>

You can use this Address - **SigNoz Inc - 2261 Market Street #4496, San Francisco, CA, 94114**

</details>

### Q. What is a DataSource ?

A. DataSource is the service, db or any instance which generates telemetry data (Traces, Logs and Metrics).

### Q. How do I change data retention periods in SigNoz?

A. For self‑hosted, change retention in Settings → General (applies only to newly ingested data).
For SigNoz Cloud, contact support to request retention changes (affects pricing).

<details>

<summary> Toggle for answer </summary>

For self-hosted SigNoz:

1. Navigate to the General tab in Settings.
2. Adjust the retention period for the desired data type (logs, metrics, or traces).
3. Note that changes will only apply to newly ingested data and will not be applied retroactively.

For SigNoz Cloud:

- Retention period changes require assistance from the SigNoz support team.
- Available retention periods:
  - Logs: Up to 180 days
  - Metrics: Up to 13 months
  - Traces: Up to 180 days
- Changes to retention periods may affect pricing. Use the [pricing calculator](https://signoz.io/pricing/#estimate-your-monthly-bill) to estimate updated costs.

To request a retention period change for SigNoz Cloud:

1. Contact SigNoz support with the requested retention periods for each data type (logs, metrics, and/or traces).
2. Review and confirm any pricing changes with the support team.
3. Support will implement the changes, typically within 24 hours.

Note: Retention period changes only affect newly ingested data and will not apply retroactively to existing data.

</details>
