data/docs/instrumentation/opentelemetry-cloudflare.mdx, before:

---
date: 2025-11-14
id: opentelemetry-cloudflare
title: Cloudflare Workers OpenTelemetry Instrumentation
description: Instrument Cloudflare Workers with OpenTelemetry Community or Official and send traces to SigNoz
tags: [SigNoz Cloud, Self-Host]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

This document explains how to instrument Cloudflare Workers with OpenTelemetry using Community or Official methods and send traces to SigNoz.

<Admonition type="info">
  Using self-hosted SigNoz? Most steps are identical. To adapt this guide, update the endpoint and
  remove the ingestion key header as shown in [Cloud →
  Self-Hosted](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/cloud-vs-self-hosted/#cloud-to-self-hosted).
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

You will need the following in place before moving on to the next step:

- A Cloudflare account (Paid plan or higher in case of Official)
- [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), the CLI tool for Cloudflare.

## Send traces to SigNoz

<Tabs entityName="methods">
<TabItem value='official' label='Official'>

Cloudflare Workers supports exporting OpenTelemetry (OTel)-compliant traces directly to SigNoz without code changes, using Cloudflare's built-in observability features.

#### Step 1: Create destination in Cloudflare

1. Go to [Workers Observability](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/pipelines) in your Cloudflare dashboard
2. Click on **Destinations** Tab
3. Click **Add destination**
4. Configure:
   - **Name**: Choose a name (e.g., `signoz-traces`)
   - **Type**: Traces
   - **OTLP Endpoint**:
     - `https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces`
     - See [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)
   - **Headers**:
     - Add `signoz-ingestion-key: <your-ingestion-key>`
5. Click Save

#### Step 2: Configure Wrangler

Update `wrangler.jsonc` ( _use the destination name created in Step 1_ ):

```json
{
  "observability": {
    "traces": {
      "enabled": true,
      "destinations": ["signoz-traces"]
    }
  }
}
```

**Additional configuration options:**

You can customize the configuration with additional options such as:

- `head_sampling_rate`: Control sampling rate for traces
- `persist: false`: Disable storing data in Cloudflare dashboard (only send to SigNoz)

For complete configuration options, refer to [Cloudflare's OpenTelemetry documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/observability/exporting-opentelemetry-data/#enabling-opentelemetry-export-for-your-worker).

#### Step 3: Deploy

Run `wrangler deploy`. Data appears in SigNoz within minutes.

### Limitations

- **Beta status**: OpenTelemetry data export from Cloudflare Workers is in beta. Features may change.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="community" label="Community">

**Step 1: Install the SDK**

Install `@microlabs/otel-cf-workers` in your [project](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/get-started/guide/#1-create-a-new-worker-project).

```bash
npm i @microlabs/otel-cf-workers
```

<Admonition type="info">
  [@microlabs/otel-cf-workers](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@microlabs/otel-cf-workers) is a third
  party OpenTelemetry compatible library for instrumenting and exporting traces from Cloudflare
  Workers.
</Admonition>

**Step 2: Add Node.js Compatibility Flag**

OpenTelemetry requires the Node.js compatibility flag to be enabled at the top level of your `wrangler.toml`.

```yaml:wrangler.toml
compatibility_flags = [ "nodejs_compat" ]
```

**Step 3: Configure tracer in Cloudflare Workers project**

Navigate to the wrangler project directory, and add the following code to your `src/index.ts` file.

```javascript:index.ts
import { instrument, ResolveConfigFn } from '@microlabs/otel-cf-workers'

const handler = {
    async fetch(request: Request, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext): Promise<Response> {
        // your cloudflare worker code
    },
}

const config: ResolveConfigFn = (env: Env, _trigger) => {
    return {
        exporter: {
            url: 'https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces',
            headers: { 'signoz-ingestion-key': '<your-ingestion-key>' },
        },
        service: { name: '<service-name>' },
    }
}

export default instrument(handler, config)
```

- Set the `<region>` to match your SigNoz [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)
- Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/)
- Replace `<service-name>` with the name of the service associated with this trace

**Step 4: Deploy the project**

Deploy the project to Cloudflare Worker.

```bash
npm run deploy
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Validate

After deploying your Worker, verify that traces are being sent to SigNoz:

1. **Access SigNoz UI and generate traces**: Navigate to the `Traces` tab in your SigNoz dashboard and send requests to your Cloudflare Worker to generate trace data

2. **View traces**: Within a few minutes, traces from your Worker should appear in the Traces view

**Expected behavior**: You should see traces with attributes like `worker_name`, `script_name`, and any custom fields from your Worker code.

<Figure
  src="/img/docs/instrumentation/cloudflare/autoinstrumentation_tracelist.webp"
  alt="Cloudflare Traces in Traces View"
  caption="Cloudflare Traces in Traces View"
/>

You can click on a particular `TraceID` in the `Traces` view to get the detailed view of the Cloudflare Worker as shown below.

<Figure
  src="/img/docs/instrumentation/cloudflare/autoinstrumentation_traceid.webp"
  alt="Sample Cloudflare Trace"
  caption="Sample Cloudflare Trace"
/>

## Troubleshooting

### Traces not appearing in SigNoz

**Symptom**: No traces visible in SigNoz UI after deploying the Worker.

**Things to investigate**:

1. **Check destination status**

   - In your Cloudflare dashboard under Workers Observability > Destinations, verify the status:
     - **Last: n minutes ago** - Data is being delivered successfully
     - **Never run** - No data has been delivered yet (check if your Worker is receiving traffic or review sampling rates)
     - **Error** - Delivery failed (verify OTLP endpoint and authentication headers)

2. **Incorrect OTLP endpoint**

   - Wrong region or endpoint format
   - Verify the endpoint matches your SigNoz setup: [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)

3. **Missing or invalid ingestion key**

   - Incorrect or missing `signoz-ingestion-key` header
   - Copy the correct ingestion key from SigNoz settings and update the destination header

4. **Worker not receiving traffic**

   - No requests to the Worker means no traces generated
   - Send test requests to your Worker endpoint

5. **Sampling rate too low**

   - Low `head_sampling_rate` means fewer traces are sent
   - Increase the sampling rate in your `wrangler.jsonc` configuration

6. **Network/connectivity issues**
   - Firewall or network blocking OTLP traffic
   - Verify your OTel collector is accessible from Cloudflare Workers

**Verification**: Check the destination status in Cloudflare dashboard (Workers Observability > Destinations) to see delivery status and any errors.

## Next steps

- **Set up logs**: Send Cloudflare Worker logs to SigNoz by following the [Cloudflare logs guide](/docs/logs-management/send-logs/cloudflare-logs)
- **Create dashboards**: Build custom dashboards to visualize your Worker performance
- **Set up alerts**: Configure alerts based on trace data to monitor Worker health
- **Analyze traces**: Use the [Trace Explorer](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/traces/) to debug issues and optimize performance

Commit message:

feat: introduce `ToggleHeading` component for collapsible documentation sections and update TOC to support them. (#2265)
* feat: introduce `ToggleHeading` component for collapsible documentation sections and update TOC to support them.

* docs: Refine `ToggleHeading` usage guidelines, standardize `doc_type` metadata, and update tag frequencies.

data/docs/instrumentation/opentelemetry-cloudflare.mdx, after:

---
date: 2025-11-26
id: opentelemetry-cloudflare
title: Cloudflare Workers OpenTelemetry Instrumentation
description: Learn how to instrument Cloudflare Workers with OpenTelemetry and send traces to SigNoz
tags: [SigNoz Cloud, Self-Host]
doc_type: howto
---

This document explains how to instrument Cloudflare Workers with OpenTelemetry using Community or Official methods and send traces to SigNoz.

<Admonition type="info">
Using self-hosted SigNoz? Most steps are identical. To adapt this guide, update the endpoint and remove the ingestion key header as shown in [Cloud → Self-Hosted](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/cloud-vs-self-hosted/#cloud-to-self-hosted).
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

You will need the following in place before moving on to the next step:

- A Cloudflare account (Paid plan or higher in case of Official)
- [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/), the CLI tool for Cloudflare.

## Send traces to SigNoz

<Tabs entityName="methods">
<TabItem value='official' label='Official'>

Cloudflare Workers supports exporting OpenTelemetry (OTel)-compliant traces directly to SigNoz without code changes, using Cloudflare's built-in observability features.

### Step 1: Create destination in Cloudflare

1. Go to [Workers Observability](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/pipelines) in your Cloudflare dashboard
2. Click on **Destinations** Tab
3. Click **Add destination**
4. Configure:
   - **Name**: Choose a name (e.g., `signoz-traces`)
   - **Type**: Traces
   - **OTLP Endpoint**:
     - `https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces`
     - See [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)
   - **Headers**:
     - Add `signoz-ingestion-key: <your-ingestion-key>`
5. Click Save

### Step 2: Configure Wrangler

Update `wrangler.jsonc` ( _use the destination name created in Step 1_ ):

```json
{
  "observability": {
    "traces": {
      "enabled": true,
      "destinations": ["signoz-traces"]
    }
  }
}
```

**Additional configuration options:**

You can customize the configuration with additional options such as:

- `head_sampling_rate`: Control sampling rate for traces
- `persist: false`: Disable storing data in Cloudflare dashboard (only send to SigNoz)

For complete configuration options, refer to [Cloudflare's OpenTelemetry documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/observability/exporting-opentelemetry-data/#enabling-opentelemetry-export-for-your-worker).

### Step 3: Deploy

Run `wrangler deploy`. Data appears in SigNoz within minutes.

### Limitations

- **Beta status**: OpenTelemetry data export from Cloudflare Workers is in beta. Features may change.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="community" label="Community">

### Step 1: Install the SDK

Install `@microlabs/otel-cf-workers` in your [project](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/get-started/guide/#1-create-a-new-worker-project).

```bash
npm i @microlabs/otel-cf-workers
```

<Admonition type="info">
  [@microlabs/otel-cf-workers](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@microlabs/otel-cf-workers) is a third
  party OpenTelemetry compatible library for instrumenting and exporting traces from Cloudflare
  Workers.
</Admonition>

### Step 2: Add Node.js Compatibility Flag

OpenTelemetry requires the Node.js compatibility flag to be enabled at the top level of your `wrangler.toml`.

```yaml:wrangler.toml
compatibility_flags = [ "nodejs_compat" ]
```

### Step 3: Configure tracer in Cloudflare Workers project

Navigate to the wrangler project directory, and add the following code to your `src/index.ts` file.

```javascript:index.ts
import { instrument, ResolveConfigFn } from '@microlabs/otel-cf-workers'

const handler = {
    async fetch(request: Request, env: Env, ctx: ExecutionContext): Promise<Response> {
        // your cloudflare worker code
    },
}

const config: ResolveConfigFn = (env: Env, _trigger) => {
    return {
        exporter: {
            url: 'https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/traces',
            headers: { 'signoz-ingestion-key': '<your-ingestion-key>' },
        },
        service: { name: '<service-name>' },
    }
}

export default instrument(handler, config)
```

- Set the `<region>` to match your SigNoz [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)
- Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/)
- Replace `<service-name>` with the name of the service associated with this trace

### Step 4: Deploy the project

Deploy the project to Cloudflare Worker.

```bash
npm run deploy
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Validate

After deploying your Worker, verify that traces are being sent to SigNoz:

1. **Access SigNoz UI and generate traces**: Navigate to the `Traces` tab in your SigNoz dashboard and send requests to your Cloudflare Worker to generate trace data

2. **View traces**: Within a few minutes, traces from your Worker should appear in the Traces view

**Expected behavior**: You should see traces with attributes like `worker_name`, `script_name`, and any custom fields from your Worker code.

<Figure
  src="/img/docs/instrumentation/cloudflare/autoinstrumentation_tracelist.webp"
  alt="Cloudflare Traces in Traces View"
  caption="Cloudflare Traces in Traces View"
/>

You can click on a particular `TraceID` in the `Traces` view to get the detailed view of the Cloudflare Worker as shown below.

<Figure
  src="/img/docs/instrumentation/cloudflare/autoinstrumentation_traceid.webp"
  alt="Sample Cloudflare Trace"
  caption="Sample Cloudflare Trace"
/>

<details>
<ToggleHeading>
## Troubleshooting
</ToggleHeading>

### Traces not appearing in SigNoz

**Symptom**: No traces visible in SigNoz UI after deploying the Worker.

**Things to investigate**:

1. **Check destination status**

   - In your Cloudflare dashboard under Workers Observability > Destinations, verify the status:
     - **Last: n minutes ago** - Data is being delivered successfully
     - **Never run** - No data has been delivered yet (check if your Worker is receiving traffic or review sampling rates)
     - **Error** - Delivery failed (verify OTLP endpoint and authentication headers)

2. **Incorrect OTLP endpoint**

   - Wrong region or endpoint format
   - Verify the endpoint matches your SigNoz setup: [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)

3. **Missing or invalid ingestion key**

   - Incorrect or missing `signoz-ingestion-key` header
   - Copy the correct ingestion key from SigNoz settings and update the destination header

4. **Worker not receiving traffic**

   - No requests to the Worker means no traces generated
   - Send test requests to your Worker endpoint

5. **Sampling rate too low**

   - Low `head_sampling_rate` means fewer traces are sent
   - Increase the sampling rate in your `wrangler.jsonc` configuration

6. **Network/connectivity issues**
   - Firewall or network blocking OTLP traffic
   - Verify your OTel collector is accessible from Cloudflare Workers

**Verification**: Check the destination status in Cloudflare dashboard (Workers Observability > Destinations) to see delivery status and any errors.

</details>

## Next steps

- **Set up logs**: Send Cloudflare Worker logs to SigNoz by following the [Cloudflare logs guide](/docs/logs-management/send-logs/cloudflare-logs)
- **Create dashboards**: Build custom dashboards to visualize your Worker performance
- **Set up alerts**: Configure alerts based on trace data to monitor Worker health
- **Analyze traces**: Use the [Trace Explorer](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/traces/) to debug issues and optimize performance
