data/blog/redis-monitoring.mdx, before:

---
title: "Complete Guide to Redis Monitoring: Essential Metrics, Tools & Best Practices 2025"
slug: "redis-monitoring"
date: "2025-07-31"
tags: [Monitoring, Redis]
authors: [ankit_anand]
description: "Master Redis monitoring with our comprehensive guide covering essential performance metrics, memory management, alerting strategies, and comparison of top monitoring tools including SigNoz, Prometheus, and Grafana for 2025."
keywords: [redis monitoring, redis metrics, redis performance monitoring, redis memory monitoring, redis latency monitoring, redis cache monitoring, redis cluster monitoring, prometheus redis, grafana redis, redis alerting, redis troubleshooting, redis observability]
---

Redis is a powerful tool, but its position in the critical path of applications means that performance issues can have a widespread impact. Whether you use Redis as a cache, session store, or primary database, effective monitoring is essential to prevent slowdowns and ensure a responsive user experience.

This guide provides a comprehensive walkthrough of Redis monitoring, covering the essential metrics you need to track, the tools available to you, and the best practices to adopt in 2025.

## What is Redis and Why Monitor It?

Redis (Remote Dictionary Server) is an in-memory data structure store that serves several key roles in modern application architectures:

- **Cache**: With its sub-millisecond data retrieval, Redis is ideal for caching frequently accessed data, such as API responses and database query results.
- **Session store**: It provides a fast and consistent way to store user sessions in distributed systems.
- **Message broker**: Redis supports publish/subscribe messaging patterns and various data structures for building message queues.
- **Primary database**: For use cases that require rapid read/write operations, Redis is increasingly being used as a primary database.

Given its central role, any degradation in Redis performance can cascade through your system, leading to frustrated users and potential failures. Effective monitoring provides the early warnings and actionable insights needed to prevent these issues before they escalate.

## Essential Redis Metrics

To effectively monitor Redis, you need to understand which metrics to track. These can be grouped into several key categories that together provide a holistic view of your Redis instance's health:

1. **Performance metrics** that measure response times and throughput
2. **Memory metrics** that track resource utilization
3. **Activity metrics** that show client behavior
4. **Persistence metrics** for data durability
5. **Error metrics** that capture potential problems


### Performance Metrics

Performance metrics are the first place you'll look to understand how well Redis is responding to application requests.

- **Latency**: This measures the time between a command being received and a response being sent. Since Redis typically operates with sub-millisecond latency, even small increases can be significant.
- **Operations per second (ops/sec)**: The `instantaneous_ops_per_sec` metric gives you a view of Redis's throughput. If you see latency increasing while throughput remains constant, the issue may not be with Redis commands but with network or infrastructure problems.
- **Cache hit ratio**: Calculated as `keyspace_hits / (keyspace_hits + keyspace_misses)`, this metric is crucial for caching workloads. A healthy ratio is typically above 90%. A low hit rate suggests that clients are frequently requesting keys that have been evicted or never existed.

    The Redis INFO command gives you the total number of keyspace_hits and keyspace_misses.
    ```bash
    redis-cli INFO stats
    ```

    <Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/redis_info_stats_keyspace.webp" alt="Redis Cache Hit Ratio" caption="The Redis INFO command showing keyspace hits and misses" />

- **CPU usage**: As Redis is primarily single-threaded, CPU usage is a critical indicator of server load. High CPU can result from inefficient commands, high throughput, or background operations. It's important to monitor both Redis-specific and system-wide CPU usage to isolate the cause.


### Memory Metrics

Memory management is arguably the most critical aspect of Redis monitoring, as all data is stored in RAM.

- **used_memory**: This represents the total bytes allocated by Redis for data. If this exceeds available system memory, the OS will start swapping to disk, which will severely degrade performance.
- **Memory fragmentation ratio**: Calculated as `used_memory_rss / used_memory`, this metric indicates how efficiently memory is being used. A healthy ratio is generally between 1.0 and 1.4. A value below 1.0 is a critical issue, as it means Redis is using swap memory. If the ratio is consistently above 1.5, it suggests excessive fragmentation. Instead of restarting the server, consider enabling **active defragmentation** (available in Redis 4.0+), which can resolve fragmentation without downtime.
- **evicted_keys**: This metric counts the number of keys that have been removed because Redis has reached its memory limit. A high number of evicted keys may indicate that you need to allocate more memory or review your data retention policies.
- **maxmemory configuration**: This setting puts a cap on Redis's RAM usage, preventing it from consuming all available system memory. It's a critical setting for managing eviction policies and maintaining system stability.
- **blocked_clients**: This shows the number of clients waiting on blocking operations. A consistently high number can point to bottlenecks in your queues or slow consumers.

### Activity Metrics

Beyond performance and memory, you also need to understand how clients are interacting with your Redis instance. These activity metrics provide insight into connection patterns and replication status.

- **connected_clients**: This tracks the number of active client connections. Sudden changes outside of normal ranges can indicate [upstream connection](https://signoz.io/guides/upstream-connect-error/) issues or capacity problems.
- **connected_replicas**: If you are using Redis replication, this metric is crucial. An unexpected drop in the number of replicas can signal a host failure or other issues with your replica instances.
- **master_last_io_seconds_ago**: This measures the time since the last interaction between a primary and replica instance. If this value grows too large, you risk serving stale data and may trigger a full synchronization, which is an expensive operation.
- **keyspace_size**: This tracks the total number of keys in your Redis instance. For caching workloads, this helps you anticipate when you might hit memory limits and need to adjust your eviction policies or add capacity.

<Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/redis_info_keyspace.webp" alt="Redis INFO keyspace" caption="The keyspace section of the Redis INFO command showing key statistics" />

### Persistence Metrics

If you are using Redis for more than just caching, you'll want to monitor its persistence metrics to ensure data durability.

- **rdb_last_save_time**: This shows the Unix timestamp of the last successful dump to disk. A large gap between saves increases the risk of data loss in the event of a failure.
- **rdb_changes_since_last_save**: This indicates how much data has changed since the last save. Even with long intervals between saves, a low number of changes means a lower risk of data loss.

### Error Metrics

Finally, error metrics are direct indicators of problems that require your attention.

- **rejected_connections**: If Redis reaches its `maxclients` limit, it will start rejecting connections. Any non-zero value for this metric indicates a capacity issue.
- **keyspace_misses**: This metric increments when clients request non-existent keys. While some misses are expected in caching scenarios, a high number in other workloads can point to application bugs or inefficient queries.
- **master_link_down_since_seconds**: This metric appears when the connection between a primary and replica fails. To avoid serving stale data, this value should always be zero.


## How to Setup Effective Redis Monitoring?

### Establishing Baselines

Before you can set up effective alerts, you need to establish a performance baseline. Document the typical latency, memory usage, and throughput for your workload during normal operations. This will give you a reference point for identifying anomalies.

### Key Monitoring Configurations

- **Memory monitoring**: Set alerts for when memory usage exceeds 80% for caching workloads or 90% if Redis is your primary database. Keep a close eye on fragmentation ratios and eviction rates.
- **Performance tracking**: Alert on any significant increase in latency above your baseline. For a Redis instance that typically responds in under 1ms, an alert at 5-10ms can provide an early warning.
- **Connection monitoring**: Track client connections and set alerts for sudden spikes or rejections. Monitor replication lag based on your consistency requirements.

<Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/memory_fragmentation_ratio.webp" alt="Memory fragmentation ratio monitored using SigNoz" caption="Memory fragmentation ratio monitored using SigNoz" />

## Troubleshooting Common Issues in Redis Monitoring

### High Memory Usage

When Redis approaches its memory limit, performance can degrade quickly. This is often caused by inefficient data structures, missing TTL settings on keys, or simply not allocating enough memory.

**Diagnostic steps**:
1. Analyze memory usage with `INFO memory`.
2. Identify large keys using `MEMORY USAGE keyname` or the `--bigkeys` option.
3. Review your eviction policies and TTL settings.
4. Consider optimizing your data structures.

### Replication Lag

Replication lag can lead to data inconsistency and impact the reliability of your failover process.

**Investigation steps**:
1. Monitor the `master_last_io_seconds_ago` metric.
2. Check the network connectivity between your primary and replica instances.
3. Analyze the load and resource utilization on the primary instance.
4. Review your replication buffer configurations.

### Latency Spikes

High latency is often a sign of inefficient commands or resource contention.

**Troubleshooting steps**:
1. Use the `SLOWLOG` to identify problematic commands.
2. Analyze command patterns for inefficiencies.
3. Check for background operations like `SAVE` or `BGSAVE` that may be consuming resources.
4. Monitor system-level resources to rule out broader issues.

<Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/redis_cli_latency.webp" alt="Latency monitoring using Redis CLI" caption="Latency monitoring using Redis CLI showing response time analysis" />

## Best Practices for Redis Monitoring

### Monitoring Strategy

Develop a monitoring strategy that is aligned with your specific Redis use case. If you are using Redis as a cache, you will want to prioritize hit rates and eviction patterns. If it's your primary database, you'll be more focused on durability and consistency metrics.

### Alerting Configuration

Set meaningful alert thresholds that are sensitive enough to catch issues early but not so sensitive that they generate excessive noise. Start with conservative thresholds and adjust them based on your operational experience.

### Integration Approach

Correlate your [Redis metrics](https://signoz.io/blog/redis-monitoring/#error-metrics) with application performance indicators. Understanding how Redis performance impacts the end-user experience will help you prioritize your optimization efforts more effectively.

## Redis Monitoring Tools Overview

The Redis monitoring landscape offers a variety of solutions, from built-in commands to enterprise-grade platforms.

### Built-in Redis Tools

Redis provides several commands for on-the-spot monitoring and debugging:

- The **INFO** command provides a comprehensive set of server statistics. You can also request specific sections, such as `INFO memory` or `INFO stats`.
    ```bash
    redis-cli INFO memory
    # Memory
    used_memory:1463344
    used_memory_human:1.40M
    used_memory_rss:2211840
    used_memory_rss_human:2.11M
    mem_fragmentation_ratio:1.51
    ```
- The **MONITOR** command offers a real-time stream of commands being executed, but it has a significant performance impact and should be used sparingly in production.
- The **Redis Slowlog** tracks commands that exceed a configurable execution time, helping you identify performance bottlenecks.
    ```bash
    CONFIG SET slowlog-log-slower-than 10000
    SLOWLOG GET 10
    ```
- **Latency monitoring**, available since Redis 2.8.13, allows you to track performance events and diagnose latency issues.

### Open Source Solutions

**RedisInsight** serves as the official GUI tool, providing real-time monitoring and performance analysis. While suitable for development, it lacks robust alerting needed for production.

**Prometheus + Grafana** represents a widely-used open-source stack. The Redis Exporter collects metrics, Prometheus stores time-series data, and Grafana provides visualization and alerting.

Benefits include complete infrastructure control and extensive customization options. However, setup and maintenance require significant effort.

**SigNoz** offers a modern approach to Redis monitoring through its OpenTelemetry-native observability platform, which we'll explore in detail in the next section.

### Enterprise Solutions

- **Redis Enterprise**: Provides built-in monitoring through its management console, with real-time visualization, automated alerting, and cluster management features.
- **Datadog, New Relic**: These commercial platforms offer Redis monitoring as part of a broader observability solution. They typically provide automated setup and intelligent alerting but come with higher costs and potential vendor lock-in.

## Monitoring Redis with SigNoz

SigNoz offers a modern approach to [Redis monitoring](https://signoz.io/blog/redis-monitoring/#performance-metrics) through its OpenTelemetry-native observability platform. Unlike traditional monitoring tools, SigNoz provides full-stack visibility by correlating Redis metrics with application traces and logs.


### Key Features

SigNoz's Redis integration collects comprehensive metrics and logs through [OpenTelemetry collectors](https://signoz.io/blog/opentelemetry-collector-complete-guide/), providing:

- Out-of-the-box dashboards for visualizing latency, error rates, and throughput
- [Distributed tracing](https://signoz.io/distributed-tracing/) that shows Redis operations within complete application transactions
- Unified view correlating Redis performance with overall application health
- Real-time [log parsing](https://signoz.io/guides/log-parsing/) and analysis

### Setup Process

Setting up Redis monitoring in SigNoz involves configuring the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://signoz.io/blog/opentelemetry-collector-complete-guide/)with Redis-specific receivers and processors. The integration supports both metrics and logs collection from Redis instances.

For detailed setup instructions, refer to the [SigNoz Redis integration documentation](https://signoz.io/docs/integrations/redis/).

The setup process includes:
1. Configuring the OpenTelemetry Collector with Redis receiver
2. Setting up log collection from Redis server logs
3. Accessing pre-built dashboards for immediate monitoring

What sets SigNoz apart is its ability to trace Redis operations within distributed transactions, making it easier to identify performance bottlenecks and understand Redis impact on overall application performance.

<Figure src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0590c87d-2024-425e-b925-07ef18e077da" alt="Redis monitoring dashboard in SigNoz" caption="Redis monitoring dashboard in SigNoz showing comprehensive metrics and performance data" />

### Get Started with SigNoz

[SigNoz](https://signoz.io/docs/introduction/) provides comprehensive Redis monitoring through its OpenTelemetry-native platform. The integration offers distributed tracing capabilities that show Redis operations within complete application transactions, plus pre-built dashboards for immediate visibility into your Redis performance.

You can choose between various deployment options in SigNoz. The easiest way to get started with SigNoz is [SigNoz cloud](https://signoz.io/teams/). We offer a 30-day free trial account with access to all features. 

Those who have data privacy concerns and can't send their data outside their infrastructure can sign up for either [enterprise self-hosted or BYOC offering](https://signoz.io/contact-us/).

Hope this guide has been helpful. If you have more questions, feel free to join our [Slack community](https://signoz.io/slack/). You can also subscribe to our [newsletter](https://newsletter.signoz.io/) for more insights on observability, open source, and OpenTelemetry.

Commit message:

Add Section on Observability to Redis Monitoring Blog (#2193)
* feat: add observability section to redis doc

* docs: refactor redis monitoring observability paragraph

- also changes the blog title
- remove existing paragraph
- rewrite integration approach paragraph with more info

* refactor: improve language  and add another backlink

data/blog/redis-monitoring.mdx, after:

---
title: "Redis Monitoring 101: A Complete Beginner's Guide (2025)"
slug: "redis-monitoring"
date: "2025-11-11"
tags: [Monitoring, Observability, Redis]
authors: [ankit_anand]
description: "Master Redis monitoring with our comprehensive guide covering essential performance metrics, memory management, alerting strategies, and comparison of top monitoring tools including SigNoz, Prometheus, and Grafana for 2025."
keywords: [redis monitoring, redis metrics, redis performance monitoring, redis memory monitoring, redis latency monitoring, redis cache monitoring, redis cluster monitoring, prometheus redis, grafana redis, redis alerting, redis troubleshooting, redis observability, observability, signoz]
---

Redis is a powerful tool, but its position in the critical path of applications means that performance issues can have a widespread impact. Whether you use Redis as a cache, session store, or primary database, effective monitoring is essential to prevent slowdowns and ensure a responsive user experience.

This guide provides a comprehensive walkthrough of Redis monitoring, covering the essential metrics you need to track, the tools available to you, and the best practices to adopt in 2025.

## What is Redis and Why Monitor It?

Redis (Remote Dictionary Server) is an in-memory data structure store that serves several key roles in modern application architectures:

- **Cache**: With its sub-millisecond data retrieval, Redis is ideal for caching frequently accessed data, such as API responses and database query results.
- **Session store**: It provides a fast and consistent way to store user sessions in distributed systems.
- **Message broker**: Redis supports publish/subscribe messaging patterns and various data structures for building message queues.
- **Primary database**: For use cases that require rapid read/write operations, Redis is increasingly being used as a primary database.

Given its central role, any degradation in Redis performance can cascade through your system, leading to frustrated users and potential failures. Effective monitoring provides the early warnings and actionable insights needed to prevent these issues before they escalate.

## Essential Redis Metrics

To effectively monitor Redis, you need to understand which metrics to track. These can be grouped into several key categories that together provide a holistic view of your Redis instance's health:

1. **Performance metrics** that measure response times and throughput
2. **Memory metrics** that track resource utilization
3. **Activity metrics** that show client behavior
4. **Persistence metrics** for data durability
5. **Error metrics** that capture potential problems


### Performance Metrics

Performance metrics are the first place you'll look to understand how well Redis is responding to application requests.

- **Latency**: This measures the time between a command being received and a response being sent. Since Redis typically operates with sub-millisecond latency, even small increases can be significant.
- **Operations per second (ops/sec)**: The `instantaneous_ops_per_sec` metric gives you a view of Redis's throughput. If you see latency increasing while throughput remains constant, the issue may not be with Redis commands but with network or infrastructure problems.
- **Cache hit ratio**: Calculated as `keyspace_hits / (keyspace_hits + keyspace_misses)`, this metric is crucial for caching workloads. A healthy ratio is typically above 90%. A low hit rate suggests that clients are frequently requesting keys that have been evicted or never existed.

    The Redis INFO command gives you the total number of keyspace_hits and keyspace_misses.
    ```bash
    redis-cli INFO stats
    ```

    <Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/redis_info_stats_keyspace.webp" alt="Redis Cache Hit Ratio" caption="The Redis INFO command showing keyspace hits and misses" />

- **CPU usage**: As Redis is primarily single-threaded, CPU usage is a critical indicator of server load. High CPU can result from inefficient commands, high throughput, or background operations. It's important to monitor both Redis-specific and system-wide CPU usage to isolate the cause.


### Memory Metrics

Memory management is arguably the most critical aspect of Redis monitoring, as all data is stored in RAM.

- **used_memory**: This represents the total bytes allocated by Redis for data. If this exceeds available system memory, the OS will start swapping to disk, which will severely degrade performance.
- **Memory fragmentation ratio**: Calculated as `used_memory_rss / used_memory`, this metric indicates how efficiently memory is being used. A healthy ratio is generally between 1.0 and 1.4. A value below 1.0 is a critical issue, as it means Redis is using swap memory. If the ratio is consistently above 1.5, it suggests excessive fragmentation. Instead of restarting the server, consider enabling **active defragmentation** (available in Redis 4.0+), which can resolve fragmentation without downtime.
- **evicted_keys**: This metric counts the number of keys that have been removed because Redis has reached its memory limit. A high number of evicted keys may indicate that you need to allocate more memory or review your data retention policies.
- **maxmemory configuration**: This setting puts a cap on Redis's RAM usage, preventing it from consuming all available system memory. It's a critical setting for managing eviction policies and maintaining system stability.
- **blocked_clients**: This shows the number of clients waiting on blocking operations. A consistently high number can point to bottlenecks in your queues or slow consumers.

### Activity Metrics

Beyond performance and memory, you also need to understand how clients are interacting with your Redis instance. These activity metrics provide insight into connection patterns and replication status.

- **connected_clients**: This tracks the number of active client connections. Sudden changes outside of normal ranges can indicate [upstream connection](https://signoz.io/guides/upstream-connect-error/) issues or capacity problems.
- **connected_replicas**: If you are using Redis replication, this metric is crucial. An unexpected drop in the number of replicas can signal a host failure or other issues with your replica instances.
- **master_last_io_seconds_ago**: This measures the time since the last interaction between a primary and replica instance. If this value grows too large, you risk serving stale data and may trigger a full synchronization, which is an expensive operation.
- **keyspace_size**: This tracks the total number of keys in your Redis instance. For caching workloads, this helps you anticipate when you might hit memory limits and need to adjust your eviction policies or add capacity.

<Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/redis_info_keyspace.webp" alt="Redis INFO keyspace" caption="The keyspace section of the Redis INFO command showing key statistics" />

### Persistence Metrics

If you are using Redis for more than just caching, you'll want to monitor its persistence metrics to ensure data durability.

- **rdb_last_save_time**: This shows the Unix timestamp of the last successful dump to disk. A large gap between saves increases the risk of data loss in the event of a failure.
- **rdb_changes_since_last_save**: This indicates how much data has changed since the last save. Even with long intervals between saves, a low number of changes means a lower risk of data loss.

### Error Metrics

Finally, error metrics are direct indicators of problems that require your attention.

- **rejected_connections**: If Redis reaches its `maxclients` limit, it will start rejecting connections. Any non-zero value for this metric indicates a capacity issue.
- **keyspace_misses**: This metric increments when clients request non-existent keys. While some misses are expected in caching scenarios, a high number in other workloads can point to application bugs or inefficient queries.
- **master_link_down_since_seconds**: This metric appears when the connection between a primary and replica fails. To avoid serving stale data, this value should always be zero.


## How to Setup Effective Redis Monitoring?

### Establishing Baselines

Before you can set up effective alerts, you need to establish a performance baseline. Document the typical latency, memory usage, and throughput for your workload during normal operations. This will give you a reference point for identifying anomalies.

### Key Monitoring Configurations

- **Memory monitoring**: Set alerts for when memory usage exceeds 80% for caching workloads or 90% if Redis is your primary database. Keep a close eye on fragmentation ratios and eviction rates.
- **Performance tracking**: Alert on any significant increase in latency above your baseline. For a Redis instance that typically responds in under 1ms, an alert at 5-10ms can provide an early warning.
- **Connection monitoring**: Track client connections and set alerts for sudden spikes or rejections. Monitor replication lag based on your consistency requirements.

<Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/memory_fragmentation_ratio.webp" alt="Memory fragmentation ratio monitored using SigNoz" caption="Memory fragmentation ratio monitored using SigNoz" />

## Troubleshooting Common Issues in Redis Monitoring

### High Memory Usage

When Redis approaches its memory limit, performance can degrade quickly. This is often caused by inefficient data structures, missing TTL settings on keys, or simply not allocating enough memory.

**Diagnostic steps**:
1. Analyze memory usage with `INFO memory`.
2. Identify large keys using `MEMORY USAGE keyname` or the `--bigkeys` option.
3. Review your eviction policies and TTL settings.
4. Consider optimizing your data structures.

### Replication Lag

Replication lag can lead to data inconsistency and impact the reliability of your failover process.

**Investigation steps**:
1. Monitor the `master_last_io_seconds_ago` metric.
2. Check the network connectivity between your primary and replica instances.
3. Analyze the load and resource utilization on the primary instance.
4. Review your replication buffer configurations.

### Latency Spikes

High latency is often a sign of inefficient commands or resource contention.

**Troubleshooting steps**:
1. Use the `SLOWLOG` to identify problematic commands.
2. Analyze command patterns for inefficiencies.
3. Check for background operations like `SAVE` or `BGSAVE` that may be consuming resources.
4. Monitor system-level resources to rule out broader issues.

<Figure src="/img/blog/2022/07/redis_cli_latency.webp" alt="Latency monitoring using Redis CLI" caption="Latency monitoring using Redis CLI showing response time analysis" />

## Best Practices for Redis Monitoring

### Monitoring Strategy

Develop a monitoring strategy that is aligned with your specific Redis use case. If you are using Redis as a cache, you will want to prioritize hit rates and eviction patterns. If it's your primary database, you'll be more focused on durability and consistency metrics.

### Alerting Configuration

Set meaningful alert thresholds that are sensitive enough to catch issues early but not so sensitive that they generate excessive noise. Start with conservative thresholds and adjust them based on your operational experience.

### Integration with Observability Systems

Correlate your [Redis metrics](https://signoz.io/blog/redis-monitoring/#essential-redis-metrics) with application performance indicators. Understanding how Redis performance impacts the end-user experience will help you prioritize your optimization efforts more effectively.

To achieve this correlation, instrument your application code with [Redis telemetry libraries](https://opentelemetry.io/ecosystem/registry/?s=redis&flag=all). These [OpenTelemetry](https://signoz.io/blog/what-is-opentelemetry/) libraries will capture the queries generated by the Redis engine. This gives you deep context into your application's interaction with Redis on a per-request basis- something metrics alone cannot provide.
For example, you might discover that abnormally long cache `GET` operations are directly causing high latencies for the `user_info` endpoint.

## Redis Monitoring Tools Overview

The Redis monitoring landscape offers a variety of solutions, from built-in commands to enterprise-grade platforms.

### Built-in Redis Tools

Redis provides several commands for on-the-spot monitoring and debugging:

- The **INFO** command provides a comprehensive set of server statistics. You can also request specific sections, such as `INFO memory` or `INFO stats`.
    ```bash
    redis-cli INFO memory
    # Memory
    used_memory:1463344
    used_memory_human:1.40M
    used_memory_rss:2211840
    used_memory_rss_human:2.11M
    mem_fragmentation_ratio:1.51
    ```
- The **MONITOR** command offers a real-time stream of commands being executed, but it has a significant performance impact and should be used sparingly in production.
- The **Redis Slowlog** tracks commands that exceed a configurable execution time, helping you identify performance bottlenecks.
    ```bash
    CONFIG SET slowlog-log-slower-than 10000
    SLOWLOG GET 10
    ```
- **Latency monitoring**, available since Redis 2.8.13, allows you to track performance events and diagnose latency issues.

### Open Source Solutions

**RedisInsight** serves as the official GUI tool, providing real-time monitoring and performance analysis. While suitable for development, it lacks robust alerting needed for production.

**Prometheus + Grafana** represents a widely-used open-source stack. The Redis Exporter collects metrics, Prometheus stores time-series data, and Grafana provides visualization and alerting.

Benefits include complete infrastructure control and extensive customization options. However, setup and maintenance require significant effort.

**SigNoz** offers a modern approach to Redis monitoring through its OpenTelemetry-native observability platform, which we'll explore in detail in the next section.

### Enterprise Solutions

- **Redis Enterprise**: Provides built-in monitoring through its management console, with real-time visualization, automated alerting, and cluster management features.
- **Datadog, New Relic**: These commercial platforms offer Redis monitoring as part of a broader observability solution. They typically provide automated setup and intelligent alerting but come with higher costs and potential vendor lock-in.

## Monitoring Redis with SigNoz

SigNoz offers a modern approach to [Redis monitoring](https://signoz.io/blog/redis-monitoring/#performance-metrics) through its OpenTelemetry-native observability platform. Unlike traditional monitoring tools, SigNoz provides full-stack visibility by correlating Redis metrics with application traces and logs.


### Key Features

SigNoz's Redis integration collects comprehensive metrics and logs through [OpenTelemetry collectors](https://signoz.io/blog/opentelemetry-collector-complete-guide/), providing:

- Out-of-the-box dashboards for visualizing latency, error rates, and throughput
- [Distributed tracing](https://signoz.io/distributed-tracing/) that shows Redis operations within complete application transactions
- Unified view correlating Redis performance with overall application health
- Real-time [log parsing](https://signoz.io/guides/log-parsing/) and analysis

### Setup Process

Setting up Redis monitoring in SigNoz involves configuring the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://signoz.io/blog/opentelemetry-collector-complete-guide/)with Redis-specific receivers and processors. The integration supports both metrics and logs collection from Redis instances.

For detailed setup instructions, refer to the [SigNoz Redis integration documentation](https://signoz.io/docs/integrations/redis/).

The setup process includes:
1. Configuring the OpenTelemetry Collector with Redis receiver
2. Setting up log collection from Redis server logs
3. Accessing pre-built dashboards for immediate monitoring

What sets SigNoz apart is its ability to trace Redis operations within distributed transactions, making it easier to identify performance bottlenecks and understand Redis impact on overall application performance.

<Figure src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0590c87d-2024-425e-b925-07ef18e077da" alt="Redis monitoring dashboard in SigNoz" caption="Redis monitoring dashboard in SigNoz showing comprehensive metrics and performance data" />

### Get Started with SigNoz

[SigNoz](https://signoz.io/docs/introduction/) provides comprehensive Redis monitoring through its OpenTelemetry-native platform. The integration offers distributed tracing capabilities that show Redis operations within complete application transactions, plus pre-built dashboards for immediate visibility into your Redis performance.

You can choose between various deployment options in SigNoz. The easiest way to get started with SigNoz is [SigNoz cloud](https://signoz.io/teams/). We offer a 30-day free trial account with access to all features. 

Those who have data privacy concerns and can't send their data outside their infrastructure can sign up for either [enterprise self-hosted or BYOC offering](https://signoz.io/contact-us/).

Hope this guide has been helpful. If you have more questions, feel free to join our [Slack community](https://signoz.io/slack/). You can also subscribe to our [newsletter](https://newsletter.signoz.io/) for more insights on observability, open source, and OpenTelemetry.
