data/docs/logs-management/send-logs/cloudflare-logs.mdx, before:

---
date: 2025-11-14
id: cloudflare-logs
title: Send Cloudflare Workers Logs to SigNoz
description: Send logs from Cloudflare Workers to SigNoz using auto-instrumentation
tags: [SigNoz Cloud, Self-Host]
---

Cloudflare Workers supports exporting OpenTelemetry (OTel)-compliant logs directly to SigNoz without code changes, using Cloudflare's built-in observability features.

When combined with trace instrumentation, logs can be correlated with traces for complete observability. See [Cloudflare Workers OpenTelemetry Instrumentation](/docs/instrumentation/opentelemetry-cloudflare) to set up traces.

<Admonition type="info">
Using self-hosted SigNoz? Most steps are identical. To adapt this guide, update the endpoint and
remove the ingestion key header as shown in [Cloud →
Self-Hosted](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/cloud-vs-self-hosted/#cloud-to-self-hosted).

</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

- Cloudflare Workers Paid plan or higher
- Wrangler CLI

## Step 1: Create destination in Cloudflare

1. Go to [Workers Observability](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/pipelines) in your Cloudflare dashboard
2. Click on **Destinations** Tab
3. Click **Add destination**
4. Configure:
   - **Name**: Choose a name (e.g., `signoz-logs`)
   - **Type**: Logs
   - **OTLP Endpoint**:
     - `https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs`
     - See [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)
   - **Headers**:
     - Add `signoz-ingestion-key: <your-ingestion-key>`
5. Click Save

## Step 2: Configure Wrangler

Update `wrangler.jsonc` ( _use the destination name created in Step 1_ ):

```json
{
  "observability": {
    "logs": {
      "enabled": true,
      "destinations": ["signoz-logs"]
    }
  }
}
```

**Additional configuration options:**

You can customize the configuration with additional options such as:

- `head_sampling_rate`: Control sampling rate for logs
- `persist: false`: Disable storing data in Cloudflare dashboard (only send to SigNoz)

For complete configuration options, refer to [Cloudflare's OpenTelemetry documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/observability/exporting-opentelemetry-data/#enabling-opentelemetry-export-for-your-worker).

## Step 3: Deploy

Run `wrangler deploy`. Logs will appear in SigNoz within minutes.

## Validate

After deploying your Worker, verify that logs are being sent to SigNoz:

1. **Access SigNoz UI and generate logs**: Navigate to the `Logs` tab in your SigNoz dashboard and trigger your Cloudflare Worker to generate log output (e.g., `console.log()` statements)
2. **View logs**: Within a few minutes, logs from your Worker should appear in the Logs view

**Expected behavior**: You should see logs with attributes like `worker_name`, `script_name`, and any custom fields from your Worker code.

You can click on a particular log entry in the `Logs` view to get the detailed view of the Cloudflare Worker log as shown below.

<Figure
  src="/img/docs/instrumentation/cloudflare/autoinstrumentation_logline.webp"
  alt="Sample Cloudflare Log Entry"
  caption="Sample Cloudflare Log Entry"
/>

## Troubleshooting

### Logs not appearing in SigNoz

**Symptom**: No logs visible in SigNoz UI after deploying the Worker.

**Things to investigate**:

1. **Check destination status**

   - In your Cloudflare dashboard under Workers Observability > Destinations, verify the status:
     - **Last: n minutes ago** - Data is being delivered successfully
     - **Never run** - No data has been delivered yet (check if your Worker is receiving traffic or review sampling rates)
     - **Error** - Delivery failed (verify OTLP endpoint and authentication headers)

2. **Incorrect OTLP endpoint**

   - Wrong region or endpoint format
   - Verify the endpoint matches your SigNoz setup: [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)

3. **Missing or invalid ingestion key**

   - Incorrect or missing `signoz-ingestion-key` header
   - Copy the correct ingestion key from SigNoz settings and update the destination header

4. **Worker not receiving traffic**

   - No requests to the Worker means no logs generated
   - Send test requests to your Worker endpoint and ensure it has `console.log()` or similar logging statements

5. **Network/connectivity issues**
   - Firewall or network blocking OTLP traffic
   - Verify your OTel collector is accessible from Cloudflare Workers

## Next steps

- **Set up traces**: Correlate logs with traces by setting up [Cloudflare Workers trace instrumentation](/docs/instrumentation/opentelemetry-cloudflare)
- **Query logs**: Use the [Logs Explorer](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs/) to search and filter your Worker logs
- **Create alerts**: Set up alerts based on log patterns to monitor Worker issues
- **Build dashboards**: Create custom dashboards combining logs and traces for complete observability

## Limitations

- **Beta status**: OpenTelemetry data export from Cloudflare Workers is in beta. Features may change.
- **Limited log types**: Currently only application logs (including console.log() output) and system-generated logs are supported. For more information please refer to [Cloudflare Workers official OpenTelemetry Docs](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/observability/exporting-opentelemetry-data/#supported-telemetry-types)

Commit message:

feat: introduce `ToggleHeading` component for collapsible documentation sections and update TOC to support them. (#2265)
* feat: introduce `ToggleHeading` component for collapsible documentation sections and update TOC to support them.

* docs: Refine `ToggleHeading` usage guidelines, standardize `doc_type` metadata, and update tag frequencies.

data/docs/logs-management/send-logs/cloudflare-logs.mdx, after:

---
date: 2025-11-26
id: cloudflare-logs
title: Send Cloudflare Workers Logs to SigNoz
description: Learn how to send Cloudflare Workers logs to SigNoz using OpenTelemetry. Configure native OTLP export for seamless log management and observability.
tags: [SigNoz Cloud, Self-Host]
doc_type: howto
---

Cloudflare Workers supports exporting OpenTelemetry (OTel)-compliant logs directly to SigNoz without code changes, using Cloudflare's built-in observability features.

<Admonition type="info">
Using self-hosted SigNoz? Most steps are identical. To adapt this guide, update the endpoint and remove the ingestion key header as shown in [Cloud → Self-Hosted](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/cloud-vs-self-hosted/#cloud-to-self-hosted).
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

- Cloudflare Workers Paid plan or higher
- Wrangler CLI

## Step 1: Create destination in Cloudflare

1. Go to [Workers Observability](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/pipelines) in your Cloudflare dashboard
2. Click on **Destinations** Tab
3. Click **Add destination**
4. Configure:
   - **Name**: Choose a name (e.g., `signoz-logs`)
   - **Type**: Logs
   - **OTLP Endpoint**:
     - `https://ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs`
     - See [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)
   - **Headers**:
     - Add `signoz-ingestion-key: <your-ingestion-key>`
5. Click Save

## Step 2: Configure Wrangler

Update `wrangler.jsonc` ( _use the destination name created in Step 1_ ):

```json
{
  "observability": {
    "logs": {
      "enabled": true,
      "destinations": ["signoz-logs"]
    }
  }
}
```

**Additional configuration options:**

You can customize the configuration with additional options such as:

- `head_sampling_rate`: Control sampling rate for logs
- `persist: false`: Disable storing data in Cloudflare dashboard (only send to SigNoz)

For complete configuration options, refer to [Cloudflare's OpenTelemetry documentation](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/observability/exporting-opentelemetry-data/#enabling-opentelemetry-export-for-your-worker).

## Step 3: Deploy

Run `wrangler deploy`. Logs will appear in SigNoz within minutes.

## Validate

After deploying your Worker, verify that logs are being sent to SigNoz:

1. **Access SigNoz UI and generate logs**: Navigate to the `Logs` tab in your SigNoz dashboard and trigger your Cloudflare Worker to generate log output (e.g., `console.log()` statements)
2. **View logs**: Within a few minutes, logs from your Worker should appear in the Logs view

**Expected behavior**: You should see logs with attributes like `worker_name`, `script_name`, and any custom fields from your Worker code.

You can click on a particular log entry in the `Logs` view to get the detailed view of the Cloudflare Worker log as shown below.

<Figure
  src="/img/docs/instrumentation/cloudflare/autoinstrumentation_logline.webp"
  alt="Sample Cloudflare Log Entry"
  caption="Sample Cloudflare Log Entry"
/>

<details>
<ToggleHeading>
## Troubleshooting
</ToggleHeading>

### Logs not appearing in SigNoz

**Symptom**: No logs visible in SigNoz UI after deploying the Worker.

**Things to investigate**:

1. **Check destination status**

   - In your Cloudflare dashboard under Workers Observability > Destinations, verify the status:
     - **Last: n minutes ago** - Data is being delivered successfully
     - **Never run** - No data has been delivered yet (check if your Worker is receiving traffic or review sampling rates)
     - **Error** - Delivery failed (verify OTLP endpoint and authentication headers)

2. **Incorrect OTLP endpoint**

   - Wrong region or endpoint format
   - Verify the endpoint matches your SigNoz setup: [SigNoz Ingestion Docs](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview)

3. **Missing or invalid ingestion key**

   - Incorrect or missing `signoz-ingestion-key` header
   - Copy the correct ingestion key from SigNoz settings and update the destination header

4. **Worker not receiving traffic**

   - No requests to the Worker means no logs generated
   - Send test requests to your Worker endpoint and ensure it has `console.log()` or similar logging statements

5. **Network/connectivity issues**
   - Firewall or network blocking OTLP traffic
   - Verify your OTel collector is accessible from Cloudflare Workers

</details>

## Next steps

- **Set up traces**: Correlate logs with traces by setting up [Cloudflare Workers trace instrumentation](https://signoz.io/docs/instrumentation/opentelemetry-cloudflare)
- **Query logs**: Use the [Logs Explorer](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs/) to search and filter your Worker logs
- **Create alerts**: Set up alerts based on log patterns to monitor Worker issues
- **Build dashboards**: Create custom dashboards combining logs and traces for complete observability

## Limitations

- **Beta status**: OpenTelemetry data export from Cloudflare Workers is in beta. Features may change.
- **Limited log types**: Currently only application logs (including console.log() output) and system-generated logs are supported. For more information please refer to [Cloudflare Workers official OpenTelemetry Docs](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/observability/exporting-opentelemetry-data/#supported-telemetry-types)
